src/content/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "About Pits n' Giggles"
lastUpdated: 2025-02-15
---

# Pits n' Giggles – F1 25 Telemetry & Strategy Tool

**Pits n’ Giggles** is a browser-based **F1 25 telemetry** and strategy tool built for PC sim racers who want to **be their own race engineer**. With a glance-friendly interface and zero mouse input required while driving, it delivers critical data without distractions.

Just start the app, point your sim’s UDP output to it, and open the dashboard in any browser or OBS overlay. No installation. No accounts. No cloud. Just data that works.

---

## Be Your Own Race Engineer

Race smarter with real-time telemetry designed for solo racers:
- See **tyre wear**, age, and compound at a glance
- Track **fuel load**, usage, and custom consumption predictions
- Compare **lap times**, including best and last lap data
- Streamlined interface for **mouse-free** driving sessions

---

## Built for F1 25 Telemetry

Pits n' Giggles is optimized for:
- **F1 23**, **F1 24**, and ready for **F1 25 telemetry** (support added once the official docs are released)
- Local sessions, online league races, or Twitch streams
- Sim racers who crave clean, accurate data without the need for extra tools or engineers

---

## Key Features

🔧 **Live Data Comparison**
Track nearby drivers’ tyre wear, ERS usage, fuel levels, and lap times in real time.

📊 **Post-Race Breakdown**
Get a detailed lap-by-lap analysis to review your performance and improve racecraft.

🧠 **Predictive Insights**
Smart predictions for tyre wear and fuel usage based on your driving style.

🎥 **OBS Overlay Support**
Display real-time F1 25 telemetry data on your stream with ease.

---

## Glance-Friendly Design

The entire interface is built to **deliver insights at a glance**, so you can stay focused on the track. No clicking, no dragging—just pure telemetry.

---

## Learn More

➡️ Explore the full feature set on the [Features Page](/features).

---

## Get Started

🏁 Ready to take control of your racing strategy?
[**Download Pits n' Giggles**](/releases) and start making every lap count.

---

**Pits n’ Giggles – F1 25 Telemetry, Simplified.**

Commit message:

link to blog in homepage

src/content/about/index.md, after:

---
title: "About Pits n' Giggles"
lastUpdated: 2025-02-15
---

# Pits n' Giggles – F1 25 Telemetry & Strategy Tool

**Pits n’ Giggles** is a browser-based **F1 25 telemetry** and strategy tool built for PC sim racers who want to **be their own race engineer**. With a glance-friendly interface and zero mouse input required while driving, it delivers critical data without distractions.

Just start the app, point your sim’s UDP output to it, and open the dashboard in any browser or OBS overlay. No installation. No accounts. No cloud. Just data that works.

---

## Be Your Own Race Engineer

Race smarter with real-time telemetry designed for solo racers:
- See **tyre wear**, age, and compound at a glance
- Track **fuel load**, usage, and custom consumption predictions
- Compare **lap times**, including best and last lap data
- Streamlined interface for **mouse-free** driving sessions

---

## Built for F1 25 Telemetry

Pits n' Giggles is optimized for:
- **F1 23**, **F1 24**, and ready for **F1 25 telemetry** (support added once the official docs are released)
- Local sessions, online league races, or Twitch streams
- Sim racers who crave clean, accurate data without the need for extra tools or engineers

---

## Key Features

🔧 **Live Data Comparison**
Track nearby drivers’ tyre wear, ERS usage, fuel levels, and lap times in real time.

📊 **Post-Race Breakdown**
Get a detailed lap-by-lap analysis to review your performance and improve racecraft.

🧠 **Predictive Insights**
Smart predictions for tyre wear and fuel usage based on your driving style.

🎥 **OBS Overlay Support**
Display real-time F1 25 telemetry data on your stream with ease.

---

## Glance-Friendly Design

The entire interface is built to **deliver insights at a glance**, so you can stay focused on the track. No clicking, no dragging—just pure telemetry.

---

## Learn More

➡️ Explore the full feature set on the [Features Page](/features).

---

## Get Started

🏁 Ready to take control of your racing strategy? <br/>
[**Download Pits n' Giggles**](/releases) and start making every lap count.

💡 [Head to the blog section for tips and tricks](/blog)


---

**Pits n’ Giggles – F1 25 Telemetry, Simplified.**
